# IN4030 – Introduction to Bioinformatics

# course content
This course provides an introduction to key concepts and methods in bioinformatics. Emphasis will be put on review of efficient algorithms, data structures, and techniques used in current applications for the analysis of DNA, RNA and protein sequences. Necessary basic knowledge of molecular biology will be communicated throughout. Topics covered include comparison and alignment of two or more sequences, indexing and searching of sequence databases, motif discovery, searching with sequence patterns and profiles, gene prediction, clustering and phylogenetics, as well as mapping and assembly of data from genome sequencing.This course provides an introduction to key concepts and methods in bioinformatics. Emphasis will be put on review of efficient algorithms, data structures, and techniques used in current applications for the analysis of DNA, RNA and protein sequences. Necessary basic knowledge of molecular biology will be communicated throughout. Topics covered include comparison and alignment of two or more sequences, indexing and searching of sequence databases, motif discovery, searching with sequence patterns and profiles, gene prediction, clustering and phylogenetics, as well as mapping and assembly of data from genome sequencing.This course provides an introduction to key concepts and methods in bioinformatics. Emphasis will be put on review of efficient algorithms, data structures, and techniques used in current applications for the analysis of DNA, RNA and protein sequences. Necessary basic knowledge of molecular biology will be communicated throughout. Topics covered include comparison and alignment of two or more sequences, indexing and searching of sequence databases, motif discovery, searching with sequence patterns and profiles, gene prediction, clustering and phylogenetics, as well as mapping and assembly of data from genome sequencing.